[MUSIC]
In this video,
we are going to discuss basic
concepts about population and sample.
Population is a group of individuals
who have something in common.
We may be interested in some
properties about a certain group,
which we call target population,
that cannot be observed completely.
For example,
all registered voters in Thailand, or
all Hong Kong citizens who played
golf at least once past year,
or all neurons from your brain.
Since we cannot get information for
every individual of these populations,
we have to take sample,
which is a part of target population.
Sample is a small group of population.
It is a representative of the population,
hence, it has to be randomly selected.
This process is called random sampling.
There are two kinds of sampling,
called a sampling without replacement, or
with replacement, depending on
whether you put the select individuals
back into population before
you select the next one.
In a sampling without replacement,
an individual is randomly
selected from the population.
The next individual will be selected
without putting the previous
individual back.
Every individual is selected
from a different pool.
If the population size is very large,
this method is a factor
because it can generate a random
sample with different individuals.
There is another kind of sampling method,
sampling with replacement.
A randomly selected
individual will be put back
before the next individual being selected.
Hence, it is possible that the same
individual can be selected more than once.
When the population is small,
this method can make sure that
everyone in the population has
the same chance being selected.
In this example,
we first create a blank DataFrame and
we create a new column in this DataFrame.
Name the column as Population.
Then I run this python code to
perform sampling from the population
by drawing five individuals
randomly without replacement.
And stored them,
as a_sample_without_replacement.
In we can use method
sample to get samples.
Here, the key word replace=False
means the sampling is
a sampling without replacement.
We can define replace True to
perform sampling with replacement.
Here are the results of two samples.
You can see that for
sampling without replacement,
which is on the left-hand side,
there are no duplicates individuals found.
As we can see, there are no
duplicate index numbers either.
However, on the right-hand side,
which is the sampling with replacement,
it is possible to see the same
individual is drawn for multiple times.
Besides population sample, there is
another pair of concepts, parameter and
statistics, of which are very important
in categorizing population and sample.
Parameter is a characteristic or
summary number of populations.
Statistic is a characteristic or
summary number of sample.
For example, mean,
variance, standard deviation of population
are characteristics of population.
Once target populations are fixed,
these summary numbers will not change.
Sample also has mean, variance,
and standard deviation,
but their values changes
in different samples,
even if they are drawn
from the same population.
Let's print out the parameters of
population which we have just created.
We can calculate the mean,
variance, and the standard
deviation using dataframe methods,
.mean, .var, .std.
The mathematic formulas for
mean and variance are given.
In calculating var and std,
we set the keyword ddof as 0.
Which means the denominator of
the population variance is N,
which is the number of the population.
The .shape,
as described in the previous module,
offers a size of the data
frame in rows and columns.
We use .shape(0) to display
only the number of rows.
Also, these methods can be applied
to compute statistics of samples.
First, let us get a sample with size
10 from population, using replacement.
The sample and sample variance
standard deviation are printed out.
Notice that when we compute
a sample variance and
std, we need the ddof equal to 1.
It means the denominator
of a sample variance has to
be n-1 instead of n,
which is the sample size.
To understand why the denominator
of the sample variance is n-1, let
us generate 500 samples,
each sample with size equal to 50.
We calculate sample variance for
each sample using n and
n-1 as denominators.
You'll find that the real
population variance is 571.8.
As you can see,
the average of sample variances using
n-1 is closer to population
variance than using n.
The average of sample variance
using n as denominator is always
smaller than population variance,
which is some mathematical reasons.
n-1, in fact,
is called degrees of freedom.
For sample variance,
there is another explanation why sample
variance is divided by n-1,
which is the degrees of freedom.
Degrees of freedom is
a number of values used in
calculation that are free to variate.
When we use the sample mean to
compute the sample variance,
we will lose one degree of freedom.
For example, sample size equal to 3,
sample mean equal to 100 is used
in computing sample variance.
We can choose two individuals
independently, for example,
90 and 80 in the table, but
the third is not free to variate
because of constraint of sample mean.
The only choice for a third number is 130.
When we compute the variance,
using degrees of freedom is
better than using sample size.
In the sense that the average of estimator
will be equal to population variance,
which is called an unbiased estimator.
In the next video, we will talk about
distribution of sample statistics.